Q-1: Which of the following is an essential element of cloud native?
 Solution: Microservices

Q-2: What is Cloud Native?
 Solution: A modern approach to application development and deployment that embraces the advantages of cloud computing,
 harnessing its distributed computing capabilities to build and run applications effectively

Q-3: Who maintains and develops the CRI Control command line utility?
 Solution: Kubernetes Community

Q-4: What is DevOps?
 Solution: A set of practices that promotes collaboration between development and operations teams to manage and scale microservices effectively

Q-5: When using Docker on an Ubuntu operating system, based on which of the following distributions can you run a container?
 Solution: All the options are valid
 - Fedora
 - Debian
 - CentOS

Q-6: What is the role of etcd in a Kubernetes cluster?
 Solution: All the options are valid
 - It implements locks to prevent conflicts between the masters.
 - It ensures distributed storage of information across all nodes in the cluster.
 - It stores all the data used to manage the cluster.

Q-7: What is the purpose of the CTR command line tool that comes with ContainerD?
 Solution: It is solely made for debugging containerD and supports a limited set of features.

Q-8: How would you use the CTR command line tool to pull a Redis image?
 Solution: ctr images pull < address of the redis image >

Q-9: Which of the following statements accurately describes the purpose of the CRI Control tool?
 Solution: It's primarily used for debugging and inspecting container runtimes

Q-10: Which command is used with the CTR command line tool to run a container by specifying the image address?
 Solution: ctr run < image address >

Q-11: Why was dockershim removed from Kubernetes version 1.24?
 Solution: To encourage the use of container runtimes that support the CRI

Q-12: Where can you find containerized versions of applications readily available for use?
 Solution: Docker Hub

Q-13: Which component in Kubernetes is responsible for making decisions to bring up new containers in response to node,
 container, or endpoint failures?
 Solution: Controllers

Q-14: How can you specify a specific runtime endpoint when using the CRI Control tool?
 Solution:
 - Setting the CONTAINER_RUNTIME_ENDPOINT environment variable
 - Using the --runtime-endpoint command line option

Q-15: What is the Container Runtime Interface (CRI) in Kubernetes?
 Solution: A plugin interface that enables any container vendor to work as a container runtime for Kubernetes

Q-16: In the context of Kubernetes, what is a cluster?
 Solution: A set of nodes grouped together

Q-17: What is the role of the master node in a Kubernetes cluster?
 Solution: Orchestrating containers on the worker nodes and overseeing the cluster

Q-18: Which of the following is not a benefit of cloud computing?
 Solution: Increased reliance on physical infrastructure

Q-19: What is the role of the Kubelet in a Kubernetes cluster?
 Solution: It is the agent responsible for managing and monitoring containers on each node.

Q-20: Which statement accurately describes the container runtime used with Kubernetes?
 Solution: The container runtime used with Kubernetes can vary, with Docker being a common option.

Q-21: Which of the following components are installed when setting up Kubernetes on a system?
 Solution: All the options are valid
 - Kubelet service
 - Container Runtime
 - API Server and etcd service

Q-22: What are containers?
 Solution: Completely isolated and portable environments for running applications

Q-23: What is the primary purpose of Docker, distinguishing it from hypervisors?
 Solution: Containerizing applications for shipping and running

Q-24: Why do Docker images continue to work seamlessly in Kubernetes even after the removal of Docker support?
 Solution: Because Docker images adhere to the Open Container Initiative (OCI) standard

Q-25: Which command can be used to run an instance of MongoDB using Docker?
 Solution: docker run

Q-26: Which component serves as the entry point for interacting with a Kubernetes cluster?
 Solution: API Server

Q-27: What is the benefit of using the Nerd Control (NerdCTL) tool over the CTR command line tool?
 Solution: NerdCTL provides access to the newest features implemented into containerD.

Q-28: Which of the following statements is true about ContainerD?
 Solution: ContainerD is a separate project and a member of Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF).

Q-29: Which of the following components are typically found on a Kubernetes master node?
 Solution: kube-apiserver, etcd store, controllers, and scheduler

Q-30: What is the primary role of Kubernetes in containerized environments?
 Solution: Orchestrating the deployment and management of containers in a clustered environment

Q-31: What is the purpose of the kubectl tool in Kubernetes?
 Solution: It is used to deploy and manage applications on a Kubernetes cluster.

Q-32: What is the benefit of using container runtimes that support the CRI?
 Solution: It provides better compatibility and standardization across container runtimes

Q-33: Which of the following is NOT mentioned as a container orchestration technology?
 Solution: ContainerD

Q-34: Which container technology does Docker primarily utilize for its containers?
 Solution: LXC

Q-35: Which command is commonly used with kubectl to deploy an application on a Kubernetes cluster?
 Solution: kubectl run

Q-36: What is the purpose of dockershim in Kubernetes?
 Solution: To allow Docker to communicate with Kubernetes without using the CRI

Q-37: What is the term used to describe the automated process of deploying and managing containers, including managing
 connectivity and scaling based on workload?
 Solution: Container orchestration

Q-38: What is the primary function of a node(Minion) in a Kubernetes cluster?
 Solution: Acting as a worker machine where containers are launched

Q-39: Which command is used with NerdCTL to run a container with the name “red” using the “alpine” image?
 Solution: nerdctl run --name red alpine

Q-40: Which option is used with NerdCTL to specify port mappings and expose ports when running a container?
 Solution: -p

Q-41: Which command is used to view information about the Kubernetes cluster?
 Solution: kubectl cluster-info

Q-42: What is containerization?
 Solution: Running microservices in their own container

Q-43: Which component in Kubernetes is responsible for distributing containers across multiple nodes?
 Solution: Scheduler

Q-44: How do containers differ from virtual machines (VMs) with respect to their operating system (OS) kernel?
 Solution: Containers share the same OS kernel as the host system, but VMs have their own separate OS kernel.

Q-45: What is the relationship between a container image and a container in containerization?
 Solution: A container image is a package or template used to create one or more containers.

Q-46: Which of the following features are supported by NerdCTL but are not available in Docker?
 Solution: All the options are valid
 - Encrypted container images
 - P2P image distribution
 - Lazy pulling of images
