Q-1: Where does Docker mount a volume from when using volume mount?
 Solution: /var/lib/docker/volumes

Q-2: What are the two types of drivers in Docker for storage?
 Solution: Storage drivers and volume drivers

Q-3: Which of the following are common Container Storage Interface (CSI) drivers used for container orchestrators?
 Solution: Portworx, Amazon EBS, GlusterFs, Dell EMS

Q-4: What happens when persistent volume claims are created in Kubernetes?
 Solution: Kubernetes binds the persistent volumes to claims based on the request and properties set on the volume.

Q-5: Where is the folder for a Docker volume created by the “docker volume create” command located?
 Solution: /var/lib/docker/volumes

Q-6: What is the purpose of Docker’s writable layer?
 Solution: To store data created by the container

Q-7: In which folder does Docker store data files related to images and containers?
 Solution: /var/lib/docker

Q-8: What is the role of storage drivers in the Container Storage Interface (CSI) standard?
 Solution: To implement the set of remote procedure calls defined by CSI

Q-9: What are the different access modes available for a volume in Kubernetes?
 Solution: readonlymany, readwriteonce, readwritemany

Q-10: What command should you run to delete a persistent volume claim?
 Solution: kubectl delete persistentvolumeclaim <claim-name>

Q-11: What is dynamic provisioning of volumes in Kubernetes?
 Solution: The process of automatically provisioning storage on a cloud provider and attaching it to pods when a claim is made.

Q-12: Which of the following is responsible for handling Docker volumes?
 Solution: Volume driver plugins

Q-13: How can users select storage from the persistent volume pool in Kubernetes?
 Solution: By using a persistent volume claim

Q-14: How can you specify a preferred volume driver plugin solution for Docker volumes?
 Solution: Use the --volume-driver option with the docker run command.

Q-15: When multiple containers are created using the same Docker image, which layer is shared by all containers?
 Solution: The image layer

Q-16: What are two types of mounts available in Docker?
 Solution: Volume and bind mounting

Q-17: What is a bind mount in Docker and where can it be mounted from?
 Solution: A bind mount is a type of volume that is mounted from a specific location on the Docker host.

Q-18: What happens when you modify a source file in a Docker image layer?
 Solution: Docker automatically creates a copy of the file in the read-write layer.

Q-19: What happens to the bound volume when a persistent volume claim gets deleted in Kubernetes?
 Solution: The bound volume becomes unbound

Q-20: Which of the following statements is true about Docker’s caching mechanism for building images?
 Solution: Docker checks if the previous build layers are up-to-date and uses the cache whenever possible.

Q-21: Which of the following statements about storage classes in Kubernetes is correct?
 Solution: Different storage classes can be created using different types of disk, such as standard disk,
 SSD drives, and SSD drives with replication.

Q-22: What is the correct way to use a storage class with a persistent volume claim (PVC)?
 Solution: Specify the storage class name in the storageClassName field under the spec section of the PVC definition.

Q-23: Which of the following provisioners can be used with Kubernetes for dynamic provisioning of persistent volumes?
 Solution: All the options are correct
 - AWSEBS
 - GCE provisioner
 - ScaleIO

Q-24: What command can you run in Kubernetes to view the created persistent volume claims?
 Solution: kubectl get pvc

Q-25: What happens when you run a container based on a Docker image using the docker run command?
 Solution: A new writeable layer is created on top of the existing image layer.

Q-26: Which of the following are common storage drivers used by Docker?
 Solution: AUFS, ZFS, BTRFS, Device Mapper

Q-27: What is the kind of the Kubernetes object used to request storage from a persistent volume?
 Solution: PersistentVolumeClaim

Q-28: Which of the following fields can be used in the pod definition file to configure an AWS Elastic Block
 Store volume as the storage or the volume?
 Solution: awsElasticBlockStore

Q-29: Which of the following are examples of third-party volume driver plugins for Docker?
 Solution: Azure file storage, Convoy, DigitalOcean block storage

Q-30: What happens to the data stored in the container layer when a container is deleted?
 Solution: The data is deleted along with the container

Q-31: Which option is used to mount a volume in read-write mode inside a Docker container?
 Solution: -v

Q-32: What command is used to list the created volumes in Kubernetes?
 Solution: kubectl get persistentvolume

Q-33: What is a persistent volume in Kubernetes?
 Solution: A cluster-wide pool of storage volumes configured by an administrator to be used by users deploying apps on the cluster

Q-34: What is the purpose of adding a persistent volume to a container in Kubernetes?
 Solution: To store data created by the container persistently

Q-35: Which of the following container orchestrators have adopted the Container Storage Interface (CSI)?
 Solution: All options are correct
 - Kubernetes
 - Nomad
 - Mesos

Q-36: What is the lifespan of the container layer in Docker?
 Solution: The lifespan of the container layer is tied to the lifespan of the container.

Q-37: What is the purpose of the Container Storage Interface (CSI)?
 Solution: To support multiple storage solutions to work with Kubernetes

Q-38: Which of the following statements is true about the relationship between claims and volumes in Kubernetes?
 Solution: Every claim is bound to a single volume

Q-39: What happens to the data in a persistent volume when a persistent volume claim is
 deleted and the ‘persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy’ is set to “recycle”?
 Solution: The data in the volume is scrubbed before making it available to other claims.

Q-40: What architecture does Docker use to build images?
 Solution: Layered Architecture

Q-41: Which of the following statements is true regarding the Container Storage Interface (CSI)?
 Solution: CSI is a universal standard for container orchestrators to communicate with storage providers.

Q-42: Which command is used to create a volume in Docker?
 Solution: docker volume create

Q-43: What is the preferred option to mount a volume in the Docker run command?
 Solution: --mount

Q-44: What is the default volume driver plugin for Docker?
 Solution: local

Q-45: Which of the following statements is true regarding Docker image layers?
 Solution: All options are correct
 - They are created when we run the docker build command.
 - They are read only and can not be modified after creation.
 - Docker image layers are stacked on top of each other, with each layer representing a change or addition to the previous layer.

Q-46: Which section of the pod definition file is used to mount the created volume to a specific storage solution in the host?
 Solution: hostPath

Q-47: What happens if there are no volumes available for a persistent volume claim in a Kubernetes cluster?
 Solution: The claim remains in a pending state until new volumes are made available to the cluster.

Q-48: What is the purpose of attaching a volume to a pod in Kubernetes?
 Solution: To persist data processed by the pod

Q-49: What is the name of the mechanism used by Docker to create a copy of a modified file in the read-write layer of a container?
 Solution: Copy on Write

Q-50: What is the purpose of Docker storage drivers?
 Solution: To enable the layered architecture of the docker images
