Q-3: In a typical Container Network Interface (CNI) setup, where are the supported CNI plugins stored?
 Solution: In the CNI bin directory as executables

Q-4: In a Container Network Interface (CNI) setup, where does the kubelet look to determine which plugin should be used?
 Solution: In the CNI config directory containing configuration files

Q-5: Which command can be used to view the running kubelet service?
 Solution: ps -aux | grep kubelet

Q-6: How are all the pods and services for a namespace grouped together within the DNS subdomain in Kubernetes?
 Solution: They are grouped under the subdomain under the name of the namespace

Q-7: Who defines the format for the plugin configuration file in a Container Network Interface (CNI) setup?
 Solution: CNI Standard

Q-8: On which port does the ETCD server typically listen for communication?
 Solution: 2379

Q-9: In a Kubernetes cluster, how can a pod reach a service using its service name?
 Solution: Only if the pod and the service in the same namespace

Q-10: When pod records are enabled in Kubernetes, how are the records created for pods, and what naming convention is used?
 Solution: Records are created by replacing dots in the IP address with dashes as the record name

Q-11: What is the responsibility of a container runtime in terms of networking?
 Solution: All the options
 - Identifying and attaching namespaces to the appropriate network
 - Calling the appropriate network plugin
 - Creating container network namespaces

Q-12: What does the “ipMasquerade” field in a Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin configuration file determine?
 Solution: Whether a NAT rule should be added for IP Masquerading

Q-13: Which port does the kube-controller-manager component of Kubernetes require to be open?
 Solution: 10257

Q-14: How can a pod within a Kubernetes cluster reach a service?
 Solution: By using the service name

Q-15: What is a mandatory requirement for every interface on a node in terms of network configuration?
 Solution: Each node interface must have an address configured

Q-16: What does the DNS record created for a Kubernetes service typically map?
 Solution: The IP address to the service name

Q-17: In addition to port 2379, which additional port needs to be open for ETCD clients to communicate with each other?
 Solution: Port 2380

Q-18: Which layer of networking is crucial for the functioning of a cluster at the pod level?
 Solution: Pod Layer

Q-19: On which port should the Kubernetes master node be configured to accept connections for the API server?
 Solution: Port 6443

Q-20: What does the “isGateway” field in a Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin configuration file determine?
 Solution: Whether the bridge network should act as a gateway

Q-21: What happens when a Kubernetes service is created?
 Solution: DNS Service automatically create a records for the service

Q-22: In a Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin configuration file, what value would you typically set for
 the “type” field if you want to use a bridge network?
 Solution: bridge

Q-23: What does the IPAM section in a Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin configuration file define?
 Solution: The subnet of range of IP addresses assigned to pods

Q-24: What are the two unique identifiers required for hosts in a network?
 Solution: Unique hostname and MAC address

Q-25: In Kubernetes, how are all the pods and services for a namespace grouped together within the DNS root domain for the cluster?
 Solution: They are grouped under a root domain cluster.local by default

Q-26: Which port does the kube-scheduler component of Kubernetes require to be open?
 Solution: 10259

Q-27: On which port do the kubelets on both master and worker nodes listen?
 Solution: 10250

Q-28: In a Kubernetes cluster, how are all the services grouped together within the DNS subdomain?
 Solution: They are grouped under the svc subdomain

Q-29: In a Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin configuration file, what does the “type” field indicate
 when set to “host-local” under the IPAM section?
 Solution: The type of IP address management used for pods

Q-30: Where is the Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin typically configured in a Kubernetes cluster?
 Solution: In the kubelet service on each node in the cluster

Q-31: Which of the following are popular networking solutions used to implement pod networking requirements in Kubernetes?
 Solution: All options are valid
 - WeaveWorks
 - Flannel
 - Cilium

Q-32: What are the requirements for pod networking in Kubernetes?
 Solution: All options are valid
 - Each pod should have a unique IP address
 - Pods should be able to communicate across different nodes using their IP addresses
 - Pods within same node should be able to communicate using their IP addresses

Q-33: What is a fundamental requirement for each Kubernetes master or worker node in terms of network connectivity?
 Solution: Each node should have at least one interface connected to a network.

Q-34: What is the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for a web service called ‘web-service’ in the ‘apps’ namespace
 within a Kubernetes cluster?
 Solution: web-service.apps.svc.cluster.local

Q-35: When setting up a Kubernetes cluster, does Kubernetes deploy a built-in DNS server by default?
 Solution: Yes, a built-in DNS server is automatically deployed by default

Q-36: Kubelets can be present on both master nodes and worker nodes in a Kubernetes cluster.
 Solution: True

Q-37: In Kubernetes, which range of ports is typically used by worker nodes to expose services for external access?
 Solution: 30000 - 32767


