Q-1: Which tool can be used to visualize and interact with data collected by Prometheus using the PromQL language?
 Answer: Grafana

Q-2: Among the different deployment strategies, which approach ensures both zero-downtime deployment and the
 ability to immediately rollback in case of issues?
 Answer: Blue-Green Deployment

Q-3: In Kubernetes, which Higher Level construct is primarily responsible for managing the desired state of identical,
 stateless pods and overseeing their lifecycle?
 Answer: Deployment

Q-4: Kubernetes follows an API pattern where a specific component acts as the central hub for communication.
 Which Kubernetes component serves as the hub for API interactions and manages the overall control of the cluster?
 Answer: API Server

Q-5: In Kubernetes, what feature is utilized to retrieve a collection of objects based on a key/value pair?
 Answer: Selectors

Q-6: In Kubernetes, when considering network policies within a namespace, what is the default behavior regarding ingress
 and egress traffic to and from pods if no policies are defined?
 Answer: All ingress and egress traffic is allowed to and from pods in the namespace

Q-7: Which container runtime, known for its emphasis on simplicity, robustness, and portability,
 has become an industry standard?
 Answer: ContainerD

Q-8: Which CNCF project focuses on providing a unified framework for generating, managing, and analyzing logs, metrics,
 and traces through a comprehensive set of tools, APIs, and SDKs?
 Answer: OpenTelemetry

Q-9: Within the realm of ensuring reliable and high-performance services, which technical role assumes the
 responsibility of meticulously monitoring and upholding Service Level Agreements (SLAs), Service Level Indicators (SLIs),
 and Service Level Objectives (SLOs)?
 Answer: Site Reliability Engineer

Q-10: In a Kubernetes YAML manifest file, which attribute controls the behavior of the kubelet when pulling a
 specified container image?
 Answer: ImagePullPolicy

Q-11: Given the following SLI and SLO examples, what does the SLO value represent?
 SLI: Latency
 SLO: Latency < 100ms
 Answer: The maximum allowable latency

Q-12: In the evolving landscape of Kubernetes, what is the recommended successor to PodSecurityPolicies (PSP)
 for enforcing fine-grained security policies?
 Answer: Kubernetes Admission Controllers

Q-13: Which two-layered approach does Kubernetes utilize for its autoscaling mechanism?
 Answer: Pod-based scaling and cluster-based scaling

Q-14: When it comes to securing Kubernetes, which two areas require careful attention and implementation of security measures?
 Answer: application security and cluster component security

Q-15: Which industry-standard specification enables seamless integration of diverse block and file storage systems with
 container orchestration systems like Kubernetes?
 Answer: Container Storage Interface (CSI)

Q-16: Among the following features in Kubernetes, which one enables kubelet to seamlessly integrate with multiple
 container runtimes without requiring recompilation of cluster components?
 Answer: Container Runtime Interface (CRI)

Q-17: To access the interactive shell of a container within a pod, which command or action is commonly used?
 Answer: kubectl exec -it test-pod – /bin/bash

Q-18: Which Kubernetes component is responsible for maintaining the desired state of the cluster and triggering actions
 to reconcile any deviations?
 Answer: kube-controller-manager

Q-19: Which approach exposes cluster credentials outside the cluster, potentially posing security risks?
 Answer: Push-based deployment approach

Q-20: In Kubernetes, which component serves as the default Domain Name System (DNS) solution for service discovery and
 name resolution within the cluster?
 Answer: CoreDNS

Q-21: In Kubernetes, which component serves as the default Domain Name System (DNS) solution for service discovery and
 name resolution within the cluster?
 Answer: Field Selector

Q-22: In the context of containerized applications, which networking approach employs a Sidecar pattern, co-locating an
 auxiliary container with the primary container, to handle port mapping and traffic management tasks?
 Answer: Service Mesh

Q-23: Which of the following are common Service Level Indicators (SLIs) used to measure the performance of a system?
 Answer: All options are correct
 - Saturation
 - Request Latency
 - Error rate

Q-24: In Kubernetes, which storage API resource represents a distinct unit of storage in the cluster, provisioned either
 by an administrator or dynamically provisioned using storage classes, and can be mounted as volumes in pods?
 Answer: Persistent Volume

Q-25: In Kubernetes, what are the fundamental units of deployment that encapsulate one or more containers and
 their shared resources?
 Answer: Pods

Q-26: Within the collaborative landscape of Kubernetes, what defines Special Interest Groups (SIGs)?
 Answer: Exclusive teams focusing on specific areas or domains of the project.

Q-27: What is the name of the built-in query language used by Prometheus to query its stored metrics?
 Answer: PromQL

Q-28: Which monitoring solution is responsible for collecting and aggregating metrics?
 Answer: Prometheus

Q-29: Which monitoring solution is responsible for collecting and aggregating metrics?
 Answer: Fission

Q-30: In a Kubernetes cluster, which component is responsible for integrating the cluster with the API of the cloud provider,
 enabling seamless interaction with cloud-specific resources and services?
 Answer: cloud-controller-manager

Q-31: Which Kubernetes distribution is specifically optimized for running a lightweight, single-node cluster for local
 development on Windows, Linux, and macOS?
 Answer: Minikube

Q-32: Which Kubernetes distribution is specifically optimized for running a lightweight, single-node cluster for local
 development on Windows, Linux, and macOS?
 Answer: Vertical scaling involves increasing the resources allocated to each individual unit, such as CPU or memory,
 while horizontal scaling focuses on adding more units or instances to the system.

Q-33: Which approach in DevOps involves managing infrastructure changes by storing them as code in a version control repository,
 followed by automated processes that deploy and update the infrastructure accordingly?
 Answer: GitOps

Q-34: Which feature in Kubernetes enables the segregation of resources into distinct groups within a single cluster?
 Answer: Namespaces

Q-35: In Kubernetes, when a developer needs to securely store and transmit sensitive cloud credentials to applications
 running within a cluster, which component should be utilized to maintain the confidentiality of the credentials?
 Answer: Secrets

Q-36: Which kubectl command is used to create a Kubernetes deployment named “test-dep” with the nginx
 image and configure it to have 3 replicas?
 Answer: kubectl create deployment test-dep --image=nginx --replicas=3

Q-37: When considering the 4C’s of cloud native security, what is the correct order, starting from the outermost
 layer and progressing towards the innermost layer?
 Answer: Cloud, Cluster, Container, Code

Q-38: In order to achieve optimal resource utilization and meet variable load demands in a 24/7 production service,
 which combination of features in Kubernetes can dynamically adjust the number of nodes in the cluster and the number
 of pods in a deployment?
 Answer: Horizontal Pod Autoscaler and cluster autoscaling

Q-39: Which statement accurately describes the role and purpose of the Container Networking Interface (CNI) in Kubernetes?
 Answer: A specification and libraries for writing plugins to configure network interfaces in Linux containers.

Q-40: Which endpoint is typically used to access metrics on an HTTP server?
 Answer: /metrics

Q-41: Which of the following methods are used to attach additional descriptive information to Kubernetes objects?
 Answer: Annotations, Labels

Q-42: In the context of application deployment, which term refers to a self-contained software package that includes all
 the necessary components and dependencies to run the application?
 Answer: Container Image

Q-43: Which of the following container runtimes is a lightweight, low-level runtime designed specifically for running
 containers in Linux?
 Answer: LXC

Q-44: In the context of distributed tracing, which statement accurately describes the relationship between a trace and a span?
 Answer: A trace consists of multiple spans that collectively represent a transaction, while a span refers to an
 individual operation within a trace.

Q-45: Which component in Kubernetes continuously monitors the state of the cluster, detects any deviations from the
 desired state, and initiates or requests changes to ensure the cluster remains in the desired state?
 Answer: Controller

Q-46: In the domain of ensuring optimal system performance and reliability, what roles and tasks are typically
 associated with a Site Reliability Engineer (SRE)?
 Answer: All options are correct
 - Enabling developers with secure and efficient access to logs, events, and performance metrics for effective troubleshooting and issue resolution.
 - Designing and implementing automated incident response workflows to minimize response times and reduce human error.
 - Mitigating service disruptions and restoring functionality during outages in underlying infrastructure services.

Q-47: Which Kubernetes components play a pivotal role in mediating communication between the control plane
 nodes and worker nodes in a cluster?
 Answer: kube-proxy

Q-48: The Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) API in Kubernetes encompasses the declaration of which four specific types
 of objects that govern authorization within the cluster?
 Answer: ClusterRoleBinding, ClusterRole, Role, RoleBinding

Q-49: Which component in a Kubernetes cluster is responsible for managing the state of worker nodes and ensuring
 their proper functioning?
 Answer: Kubelet

Q-50: What is the term for the process in Kubernetes that involves assigning pods to nodes based on their resource
 requirements and constraints, ensuring that the kubelet can successfully run them?
 Answer: Pod Scheduling

Q-51: Which DevOps methodology involves managing infrastructure configurations declaratively through code and
 applying changes by committing them to a version control repository?
 Answer: Infrastructure as a code (Iac)

Q-52: In Kubernetes, which component was specifically introduced to supersede the outdated ReplicationControllers?
 Answer: Deployment

Q-53: In Prometheus, what type of database is used to store the scraped metrics?
 Answer: Time series database

Q-54: What is the expanded form of the acronym CNCF, which represents a prominent organization driving the adoption
 of cloud-native technologies?
 Answer: Cloud Native Computing Foundation

Q-55: Which kubectl command allows you to retrieve a list of all available API groups in a Kubernetes cluster?
 Answer: kubectl api-versions

Q-56: Which CNCF project provides a platform for distributed tracing, monitoring, and performance optimization in
 microservices architectures?
 Answer: Jaeger

Q-57: What are the supported authorization mechanisms or modules in Kubernetes?
 Answer: All options are correct
 - Attribute-based access control(ABAC)
 - Role-based access controls(RBAC)
 - Webhooks

Q-58: Which Kubernetes component enables developers to schedule jobs based on user-defined time intervals?
 Answer: CronJobs

Q-59: Which Kubernetes component enables developers to schedule jobs based on user-defined time intervals?
 Answer: DaemonSet

Q-60: Which tool is commonly used for advanced data visualization and analysis in conjunction with Prometheus for
 monitoring and observability purposes?
 Answer: Grafana

