Q-1: What role requires experience with programming languages as well as operational tools such as deployment,
 monitoring, and logging?
 Answer: DevOps Engineer

Q-2: You are configuring authentication for your Kubernetes cluster and are considering various methods.
 Why is using a static password or token file generally not recommended for authenticating users in Kubernetes?
 Answer: static files are cleartext files that can be easily shared among users, compromising security

Q-3: In cloud-native architecture, what approach allows you to define the desired outcome of the architecture
 without writing a step-by-step procedure to achieve a goal?
 Answer: Declarative Approach

Q-4: In the event that the Kubernetes control plane becomes unavailable, what happens to the existing pods
 that are running on a cluster?
 Answer: existing pods on the cluster will continue to run without interruption

Q-5: What are the benefits of implementing a plugin architecture for various Kubernetes components,
 including CSI, CNI, and SMI interfaces?
 Answer: users can select the service or solution that suits their needs without vendor or technological lock-in concerns.

Q-6: How can namespaces be used in Kubernetes to divide a cluster into virtual clusters, providing isolation and organization?
 Answer: by partitioning the cluster into isolated namespaces

Q-7: You have a Kubernetes cluster with nodes that have specialized hardware accelerators (e.g., GPUs) and nodes
 without accelerators. You want to ensure that a specific set of pods, labeled as app=ml-app,
 always run on nodes with GPUs to maximize performance.
 Which Kubernetes feature should you use for this purpose?
 Answer: Node Affinity

Q-8: You're managing a Kubernetes cluster with different user groups, each with its own resource
 allocation and scheduling needs. To address this, you've started using Kubernetes Scheduler Profiles.
 What is the purpose of Scheduler Profiles?
 Answer: define custom scheduling rules and configure the different stages of scheduling in the kube-scheduler

Q-9: Which tool would you use to simplify the installation and management of a complex web application
 on a Kubernetes cluster on Kubernetes?
 Answer: Helm

Q-10: What is the primary function of the Kubernetes project?
 Answer: a platform for scheduling and managing containers at scale

Q-11: Which organization is responsible for maintaining the Kubernetes project and serves as the governing body
 for any updates and changes?
 Answer: Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF)

Q-12: Which is NOT a benefit of using open standards when developing or integrating different technologies?
 Answer: helps lock in users to a particular vendor or product

Q-13: What is the difference between static pods and pods created using DaemonSets? (select two)
 Answer:
 - DaemonSets are created by the kube-api server
 - static pods are created by the local kubelet running on each node

Q-14: What are the benefits of using Git to store and manage both infrastructure and application code?
 Answer: Git allows you to track changes, revert to previous versions, and collaborate effectively for infrastructure resources and applications

Q-15: When using a GitOps practice, what happens when a merge request is approved to a Git repository?
 Answer: Changes are automatically applied to the target system or platform

Q-16: Which of the following is NOT a valid Kubernetes SIG?
 Answer: certification

Q-17: Which of the following statements best describes how a Kubernetes manifest uses a declarative model?
 Answer: Kubernetes manifests define the desired state of resources and let Kubernetes reconcile the current state with the desired state.

Q-18: What architecture is commonly associated with breaking up a larger, monolith application into smaller,
 loosely coupled services that represent a specific function or application?
 Answer: microservices

Q-19: Which of the following is a cloud-native architecture that allows developers to run custom server-side code in
 containers that are commonly managed by a cloud service provider?
 Answer: serverless

Q-20: Prometheus follows what type of model for collecting metrics from target systems?
 Answer: Pull-Based Model

Q-21: What Kubernetes feature will ensure the scheduler distributes an application across user-defined fault zones,
 such as physical nodes?
 Answer: pod topology spread constraints

Q-22: Which of the following is NOT one of the guiding principles of GitOps?
 Answer: changes are frequently done via manual changes

Q-23: What is the term for the process of bringing the observed state of an application or system in line with
 the desired state?
 Answer: reconciliation

Q-24: What is the main purpose of using namespaces in Kubernetes?
 Answer: segregate pods, services, and other resources into distinct virtual clusters within a single physical cluster

Q-25: What limitation is associated with using node selectors in Kubernetes for pod scheduling?
 Answer: node selectors are not suitable for handling complex node selection criteria

Q-26: Which of the following best describes the benefits of observability of a system or application?
 Answer: the ability to understand and measure the current and/or historical state of a system based on metrics
 generated by the system or application

Q-27: Which definition offers the most precise representation of logs within the context of system observability?
 Answer: records of events that have occurred which contain information about a specific event

Q-28: What cloud-native architecture feature enables the ability for an application or service to adjust resources based
 on user demand automatically?
 Answer: autoscaling

Q-29: Which best represents the definition of Continuous Integration (CI)?
 Answer: Automating the building and testing of application code with the goal of identifying issues before
 they reach the live environment.

Q-30: What component in a Kubernetes cluster is responsible for running workloads and applications?
 Answer: node

Q-31: Prometheus is an open-source monitoring tool designed to collect data from systems. From the list below, what type
 of data is Prometheus designed to collect?
 Answer: metrics

Q-32: What is the name of the collective group of individuals responsible for overseeing the overall direction
 of the Kubernetes project in the CNCF?
 Answer: Kubernetes Steering Committee

Q-33: What is the primary purpose of using 'Pod Anti-Affinity' in Kubernetes scheduling?
 Answer: to prevent pods from being scheduled on the same node, promoting fault tolerance and reliability

Q-34: You are deploying a multi-tier application that includes a frontend and backend service.
 You want the frontend service to automatically find and connect to only healthy backend service instances.
 Which cloud-native networking solution would help meet this requirement?
 Answer: Service Discovery

Q-35: What component of Kubernetes is responsible for downloading the image and starting the container?
 Answer: container runtime

Q-36: Rather than running a container directly, what does Kubernetes use to schedule and run the container?
 Answer: a Pod

Q-37: What is a container in the context of computing and software development?
 Answer: a standardized and isolated package used to run applications that include an application and all its dependencies

Q-38: Which of the following are key concepts to building a resilient and self-healing application? (select four)
 Answer:
 - ability to automatically adjust the resources based on demand, also known as autoscaling
 - reconciliation to execute commands or tasks as needed
 - ongoing observability to understand the current state of the application
 - the application is defined as code, otherwise known as a desired state

Q-39: When measuring the performance of a system, SLO/SLA/SLI are commonly used to define targets or goals.
 What does the acronym SLI stand for?
 Answer: Service Level Indicator

Q-40: In Kubernetes, what typically happens when an image specified in a pod's configuration cannot be
 downloaded during deployment?
 Answer: The pod remains in a pending state until the image becomes available.

Q-41: Why might you use multiple custom schedulers alongside the default scheduler in Kubernetes?
 Answer: to accommodate different workload requirements and policies
