Q-1: When running a sidecar, what is the benefit of using a shared execution environment like the one found in
 a Kubernetes Pod?
 Answer: coordination and resource sharing between containers

Q-2: When using a GitOps approach for continuous deployment and integration, what is the single source of truth for
 applications, configurations, and the system's desired state?
 Answer: A Git version control system (GitHub, GitLab, BitBucket, etc.)

Q-3: You have many application workloads running on your Kubernetes cluster. You decide that the resources on Node1
 and Node2 need to be dedicated to production workloads, so you apply a taint to the node using the NoSchedule effect.
 However, the existing non-production workloads continue to run on Node1 and Node2.
 What can you change to ensure non-production workloads are rescheduled on other nodes?
 Answer: change the effect to NoExecute to ensure the non-production workloads will be evicted immediately

Q-4: Your organization uses Kubernetes for its production workloads. As a DevOps Engineer, you must ensure that
 the Kubernetes cluster has sufficient resources (nodes) to handle all application workloads but minimize costs when
 the workload is reduced. What feature can you use to meet these requirements?
 Answer: cluster autoscaler

Q-5: You have a Kubernetes cluster with multiple worker nodes with different resource capacities. You've just created a
 new pod with specific resource requirements. What is the role of the Kubernetes scheduler in this situation?
 Answer: to ensure the pod is scheduled on a node with sufficient resources

Q-6: The kubelet service on every worker node performs several functions. Which of the following is not one of them?
 Answer: downloads images needed to start containers

Q-7: You are managing a Kubernetes cluster for a web application. The application requires periodic tasks, such
 as database backups and log rotation. What is the primary reason for using a CronJob resource in Kubernetes to manage
 these tasks?
 Answer: schedule and automate recurring batch jobs or tasks

Q-8: What is the correlation between a Service Level Indicator (SLI) and a Service Level Objective (SLO)?
 Answer: SLO is a target or goal that defines an acceptable level of performance for one or more SLIs
 over a certain period of time

Q-9: Which of the following are true regarding kubeconfig files? (select three)
 Answer:
 - kubectl  command-line tool uses kubeconfig files to find the information it needs to communicate with the API server of a cluster
 - it is commonly stored in the $HOME/.kube directory
 - to organize information about clusters, users, namespaces, and authentication mechanisms

Q-10: In a Kubernetes cluster, what is the purpose of using multiple schedulers?
 Answer: to allow different users or teams to define their own scheduling policies and rules for pods

Q-11: In the unfortunate event of a security incident, what benefits does a GitOps approach offer organizations as
 they attempt to recover?
 Answer: The system is defined as immutable code in a single source of truth, which can help recreate a new independent system.

Q-12: What is one of the main obstacles that organizations encounter before implementing a CI/CD process for deploying
 applications?
 Answer: The absence of standardization and reliance on manual deployments that are prone to errors

Q-13: What is a microservices architecture?
 Answer: independent services built to work together to create an application

Q-14: After Prometheus has successfully collected metrics from servers, what language is used to query and visualize
 the data into dashboards and charts?
 Answer: PromQL

Q-15: Which of the following Kubernetes components are found on worker nodes? (select three)
 Answer:
 - kube-proxy
 - container-runtime
 - kubelet

Q-16: Rather than storing sensitive data, such as API keys or passwords, directly in a resource definition file,
 where should you securely store this information?
 Answer: in a secret resource

Q-17: What format or file type is used to create the manifest for defining a Kubernetes Pod?
 Answer: YAML

Q-18: You are managing a Kubernetes cluster with multiple worker nodes. You need to deploy a monitoring agent pod on each
 node for monitoring purposes. Which Kubernetes resource type is most suitable for this task?
 Answer: DaemonSet

Q-19: Which of the following statements accurately describes Linkerd in the context of Kubernetes?
 Answer: Linkerd is a service mesh option for Kubernetes that provides observability, security, and traffic management for microservices

Q-20: Which of the following is NOT a benefit of adopting a GitOps approach for application deployment and management?
 Answer: increased time to market

Q-21: Which of the following are valid types of nodes found in a Kubernetes cluster? (select two)
 Answer:
 - control-plane nodes
 - worker nodes

Q-22: Containers are designed to be stateless and typically local data is considered ephemeral. What does this mean
 for any data that is stored in a container?
 Answer: Containers should not rely on the local filesystem for persistent data storage, and data will be destroyed when
 the container is terminated

Q-23: What does the acronym "CNI" stand for in the context of Kubernetes, and what role does it play in the container
 orchestration environment?
 Answer: CNI stands for Container Networking Interface. It is a specification and set of plugins that define how network
 connectivity is established and managed for containers in a Kubernetes cluster.

Q-24: You need to restrict the default communication between pods in a cluster. What feature can you use to accomplish this?
 Answer: Network Policies

Q-25: What is the definition of a static pod in Kubernetes?
 Answer: a pod that is managed directly by the kubelet on an individual node.

Q-26: What happens to the data stored in a container when the container is destroyed?
 Answer: the data is deleted when the container is destroyed

Q-27: What is the primary responsibility of the Kubernetes scheduler when it comes to pod placement on nodes in a cluster?
 Answer: select an appropriate node based on resource requirements, node conditions, and other constraints

Q-28: What are the benefits of using higher-level controllers rather than deploying pods directly on a node?
 Answer: controllers add additional functionality such as scaling, resiliency, and rolling updates

Q-29: What Kubernetes resource should you use to ensure that database pods have access to reliable and persistent storage?
 Answer: Persistent Volume Claim (PVC)

Q-30: How do controllers operate in Kubernetes to maintain cluster stability and desired configurations?
 Answer: monitoring the desired state and reconciling it with the observed state

Q-31: Collecting metrics in a containerized environment can be challenging since many workloads are short-lived.
 What options can be used to successfully collect metrics in this environment using Prometheus? (select two)
 Answer:
 - collect metrics directly at the platform level using node-exporter
 - use Container Advisor (cAdvisor) to export container-based metrics

Q-32: Which of the following is true regarding the design of cloud-native applications and systems?
 Answer: cloud-native applications and systems should be designed to expect and handle failures at any point within the system

Q-33: What is another term commonly used to describe the serverless cloud-native development model?
 Answer: Functions as a Service (FaaS)

Q-34: You are responsible for monitoring an application from which you want to obtain metrics. However, the application
 cannot be queried directly by Prometheus. What can you use to scrape these metrics and convert them into a format
 that Prometheus supports?
 Answer: Prometheus Exporter

Q-35: You are managing a Kubernetes cluster for a company's microservices-based application. One of the development teams
 is deploying a new pod in the default namespace, but they haven't specified any resource requirements in the
 pod's definition file. What will be the result regarding resource limits for this pod?
 Answer: a pod in Kubernetes will run with no limits on CPU and memory in a default namespace

Q-36: Which job role is typically responsible for designing infrastructure and applications to be cloud-native?
 Answer: Cloud Architect

Q-37: What is the default container runtime on most modern Kubernetes clusters?
 Answer: Containerd

Q-38: What command is used to view information about all pods across all namespaces running on a Kubernetes cluster?
 Answer: kubectl get pods --all-namespaces

Q-39: In the Kubernetes architecture, where are all the Kubernetes objects defined?
 Answer: Kubernetes API

Q-40: In a Kubernetes cluster, what is the default communication behavior between pods when no explicit network policy is applied?
 Answer: all incoming and outgoing network traffic is allowed for all pods

Q-41: What is the primary purpose of the kubectl proxy command?
 Answer: to create a secure tunnel for accessing the Kubernetes cluster's internal API server

Q-42: Which of the following is true regarding containers running in the same pod? (select two)
 Answer:
 - the containers will always be scheduled on the same node
 - the containers will have access to the same volumes and can share data

Q-43: When was Kubernetes accepted to the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF)?
 Answer: 2016

Q-44: As an experienced Kubernetes administrator, you have an idea for a new feature of Kubernetes that you think others will
 find useful.
 What is the proper workflow to propose this idea and get it added to a future release?
 Answer: write and submit a KEP and submit it to the proper SIG

Q-45: You have created a Kubernetes definition file named web.yaml to deploy a fleet of web servers for your organization.
 What command would you use to apply this new definition file to your cluster?
 Answer: kubectl apply -f web.yaml

Q-46: When creating a namespace, what resource types are included within a namespace? (select three)
 Answer:
 - deployments
 - pods
 - service accounts

Q-47: You have a definition file named production.yaml for your workload but you have recently made changes to the file
 and need to apply the changes to the existing objects. How can you apply these changes to the Kubernetes cluster?
 Answer: run the command kubectl apply -f production.yaml to apply the changes

Q-48: You have a high-performing app you want to schedule on the same node to minimize latency between an application
 container and the data processing container. What scheduler feature can you use so the containers will be scheduled
 on the same node?
 Answer: Affinity

Q-49: What are the benefits of using a GitOps tool to continuously reconcile the state of the infrastructure?
 Answer: to ensure the system state matches the desired state as defined by code

Q-50: Which Kubernetes components will you find running on a control plane node? (select four)
 Answer:
 - etcd
 - API Server
 - Controllers
 - Scheduler

Q-51: What is the primary purpose of the Container Runtime Interface (CRI) in Kubernetes?
 Answer: provide a standardized interface for container runtimes to interact with the Kubernetes control plane

Q-52: If you need to run a container as a root user due to specific application requirements,
 what is a recommended practice to enhance security?
 Answer: deploy the container in a separate namespace dedicated to root user containers

Q-53: Your containerized application requires additional resources (memory) to increase performance.
 What type of scaling is this referred to as?
 Answer: Vertical Scaling

Q-54: What is a Kubernetes Service?
 Answer: a Kubernetes resource for load balancing and providing a stable network endpoint for pods

Q-55: In Kubernetes, what is the primary purpose of using labels and selectors?
 Answer: categorizing and identifying resources, which enables grouping and querying

Q-56: Why are open standards critical for developing and consuming cloud-native tools?
 Answer: give developers confidence that the products will work as expected and will integrate well with other tools

Q-57: Which of the following is NOT one of the major control plane services that run on every control plane node?
 Answer: kubelet

Q-58: Which of the following metrics can be monitored and collected by Prometheus? (select three)
 Answer:
 - disk latency
 - CPU and memory utilization
 - custom-application error rates


