Q-1: Which fundamental data storage concept does Prometheus rely on to effectively organize and manage collected metric data?
 Answer: time-based database

Q-2: What are some advantages of using a hosted Kubernetes service, such as AWS EKS or Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE),
 compared to managing your own Kubernetes cluster?
 Answer: Hosted Kubernetes services simplify cluster management and maintenance

Q-3: Which of the following strategies can be used to help reduce costs in a public cloud platform? (select three)
 Answer:
 - Choosing the proper infrastructure or services to run your application, such as using reserved or spot instances where applicable
 - Use autoscaling to automatically scale resources down when the user load has decreased
 - Deleting unneeded resources from your accounts

Q-4: What group did the CNCF create to oversee and define GitOps in a vendor-neutral manner?
 Answer: GitOps Working Group

Q-5: Which of the following is NOT a requirement for autoscaling to be cloud native?
 Answer: the application must provide an API to query

Q-6: In your Kubernetes cluster, you have a pod (web) that runs two containers: an app and a sidecar container.
 How can you get detailed information about the pod to view the container names?
 Answer: kubectl describe pod web

Q-7: You need to examine the logs for a pod named prd-nginx-app. What command would you use to display these logs to the CLI?
 Answer: kubectl logs prd-nginx-app

Q-8: You have been tasked with refactoring an existing application to make it cloud-native.
 What benefits can the organization expect after completion? (select two)
 Answer:
 - on-demand based scaling to ensure availability and increased cost savings
 - increased resiliency for the application resulting in high availability

Q-9: You are managing user access in a Kubernetes cluster. You've noticed that Kubernetes lacks objects to represent
 normal user accounts, and you cannot add normal users to the cluster through an API call. What mechanism is typically
 used to manage user authentication and access to a Kubernetes cluster?
 Answer: implement an external identity provider (e.g., LDAP or OIDC) to authenticate and manage user access

Q-10: What year did Google initially develop Kubernetes?
 Answer: 2014

Q-11: What is the role of gVisor in a Kubernetes environment?
 Answer: gVisor is a security-focused container runtime that provides an additional layer of isolation for
 containers running in Kubernetes.

Q-12: You are a Kubernetes administrator managing a production cluster. You need to perform a rolling update of a deployment
 using kubectl. What is a critical requirement for successfully executing this command?
 Answer: the Kubernetes API server must be available

Q-13: You see a resource request for 5 CPU units in a resource definition file. What is a CPU unit equivalent to?
 Answer: one physical CPU core or one virtual core

Q-14: What two CLI commands allow you to create objects in Kubernetes?
 Answer:
 - kubectl apply
 - kubectl create

Q-15: What component of a Kubernetes cluster is made up of a collection of independent services that are essentially
 the "brains" of a cluster?
 Answer: controlplane

Q-16: What term best describes the process of automating container deployment and management, which includes managing
 connectivity and scaling based on user demand?
 Answer: container orchestration

Q-17: Which of the following are valid container runtimes that can be used with Kubernetes? (select three)
 Answer:
 - CRI-O
 - Docker Engine
 - ContainerD

Q-18: What happens when the ArgoCD operator detects changes in the repo used to store Kubernetes manifests?
 Answer:

Q-19: What happens when the ArgoCD operator detects changes in the repo used to store Kubernetes manifests?
 Answer: traffic flowing between services within the same data center or cluster

Q-20: In the context of service mesh, what does "east-west traffic" refer to?
 Answer: traffic between a user's device and a service within the data center

Q-21: How do you specify resource limits for CPU and memory in a Kubernetes resource definition file, such as a pod manifest?
 Answer: using the resources field within the containers section

Q-22: What type of deployment approach involves the creation of step-by-step instructions
 to provision an application or infrastructure?
 Answer: imperative

Q-23: You have a single Kubernetes cluster that you want to run multiple workloads managed by different teams.
 Therefore, you need to isolate the users and workloads. What Kubernetes feature can be used to safely and easily
 meet these requirements?
 Answer: namespaces

Q-24: Which component represents the smallest deployable unit of computing that you can create and manage in Kubernetes?
 Answer: Pod

Q-25: You've created a new Kubernetes manifest to run five instances of your production application in a deployment.
 Once applied, what Kubernetes component is responsible for changing the actual state to the desired state and
 ensuring the desired number of pods is always running?
 Answer: Deployment Controller

Q-26: What feature does Kubernetes use to implement the pod network to create a large, flat open network that pods
 can use to communicate on?
 Answer: third-party Container Network Interface (CNI) plugins

Q-27: You have a Kubernetes Deployment managing an application workload that has changing demand throughout the day.
 What feature of Kubernetes can be used to automatically scale the number of pods in the Deployment as load increases
 and delete pods when demand decreases?
 Answer: Horizontal Pod Autoscaler

Q-28: What is the primary purpose of annotations in Kubernetes?
 Answer: to provide additional metadata or information about Kubernetes resources

Q-29: Which of the following components are typically found on worker nodes in a Kubernetes cluster? (select two)
 Answer:
 - kube-proxy
 - kubelet

Q-30: When creating a resource definition file, what section would you define labels that apply to the resource itself?
 Answer: metadata

Q-31: In the context of container security, what is a recommended best practice regarding containers running as the root user?
 Answer: run containers as non-root users whenever possible to enhance security

Q-32: Knative and OpenFaas are examples of what kind of platform commonly used to deploy and execute functions
 on Kubernetes clusters?
 Answer: Serverless

Q-33: When operating a managed service, it's common to have a contract between a vendor and a user that guarantees a
 specific Service Level Objective (SLO). What are these agreements often called?
 Answer: Service Level Agreement (SLA)

Q-34: How do controllers operate within the Kubernetes ecosystem to maintain the desired state of resources in a cluster?
 Answer: Controllers use a declarative approach, reconciling the current state with the desired state as defined
 in resource manifests.

Q-35: How often are new versions of Kubernetes released?
 Answer: every four months (3x yearly)

Q-36: You want to use taints and tolerances in your Kubernetes environment and need to apply the settings.
 Select the correct answers below regarding taints and tolerances: (select two)
 Answer:
 - tolerations are added to the pod definition file to define the
 - taints are set on nodes using the kubectl command

Q-37: When considering the security of credentials for a platform, which type of deployment is more secure?
 Answer: pull-based deployments

Q-38: What declarative GitOps tool was developed by Intuit and is a graduated CNCF project?
 Answer: Argo

Q-39: What is NOT a benefit of using a pull-based system like Prometheus for the observability of a system or application?
 Answer: Simplifies the configuration of an event-based system for monitoring events

Q-40: How can you manually assign a pod to a specific node in a Kubernetes cluster?
 Answer: provide the name of the target node in the nodeName field in the pod definition file

Q-41: What platform was the first to standardize the distribution of container images and comply with the
 OCI distribution specification?
 Answer: Docker Hub

Q-42: What is the primary purpose that the Open GitOps project aims to solve?
 Answer: Define and standardize best practices for GitOps and create a common language and understanding of GitOps
 that can be used by everyone

Q-43: What are the benefits of Special Interest Group in managing the Kubernetes project? (select three)
 Answer:
 - allows for faster development of features and bugs fixing
 - enables a faster pace of innovation
 - allows them to focus on particular areas of the project

Q-44: What command line (CLI) utility is used for interacting and managing a Kubernetes cluster?
 Answer: kubectl

Q-45: By default, Kubernetes implements a flat network to enable communication and networking between pods. What is this network called?
 Answer: pod network

Q-46: What is a Kubernetes cluster?
 Answer: set of nodes (computers) that work together to run containerized applications orchestrated by Kubernetes

Q-47: You are a Kubernetes administrator frequently working in multiple namespaces. What is the most efficient way
 for you to configure the desired namespace so you don't have to specify the namespace each time you run a kubectl command?
 Answer: define a Kubernetes context for the target namespace using

Q-48: What OCI standard defines the structure, format, and metadata of container images used in containerization technologies like Docker and Kubernetes?
 Answer: Image spec

Q-49: What are the three crucial Kubernetes services that operate on worker nodes? (select three)
 Answer:
 - container runtime
 - kubelet
 - kube-proxy

Q-50: What makes a role a "full stack" developer?
 Answer: a full-stack developer understands and can develop solutions for the front-end and back-end components of a system

Q-51: What is the primary purpose of using spread constraints in Kubernetes?
 Answer: to distribute pods of a specific service evenly across all nodes in the cluster to improve load balancing

Q-52: What is the well-known local directory that kubelet periodically checks to deploy and manage static pods?
 Answer: /etc/kubernetes/manifests

Q-53: Once an API is updated to version 1, (v1) what is the term used to refer to this stage of the API's development?
 Answer: stable

Q-54: In a cloud-native architecture, which solution is typically used to connect thousands of services across different clusters, providing features like load balancing, traffic management, and observability?
 Answer: Service Mesh

Q-55: What are the default resources assigned to a pod if the definition file doesn't specify any requirements,
 assuming there are no additional configurations applied?
 Answer: 0.5 CPU, 256Gi memory

Q-56: Which key component of Kubernetes is the cluster store built on and is responsible for storing configuration
 data and maintaining cluster state?
 Answer: etcd

Q-57: When it comes to downloading or searching for containerized versions of applications, where are the images typically
 stored?
 Answer: Container Registry, such as Docker Hub or Amazon ECR

Q-58: What are two different ways that you can create new pods on a worker node with a definition file? (select two)
 Answer:
 - through the Kubernetes HTTP API endpoint
 - create a definition file and place it in the static pod directory of /etc/kubernetes/manifests

Q-59: When scheduling a pod, what phases are used to determine the best node to assign the pod?
 Answer: Filtering and Scoring

Q-60: When deploying a cloud-native application, what are the key factors to consider for using autoscaling for
 your application? (select three)
 Answer:
 - the application itself must be designed to scale
 - the underlying infrastructure should be designed to scale effectively
 - autoscaling must be able to scale up to meet user's demand but scale down to ensure cost savings and efficient use
   of resources

